app/components/ui/color-picker/docs.md, before:

# Color Picker Component

A highly modular, Shadcn-style color picker built with Vue 3. It supports multiple color formats, precise control over the saturation/hue area, and a fully configurable popover.

## Architecture

The component follows a primitive-first architecture:

- **`ColorPickerRoot`**: The logical engine. Provides state and methods via context and scoped slots.
- **`ColorPicker`**: A pre-composed, high-level component that uses all primitives for an out-of-the-box experience.
- **Sub-components**: Modular pieces (`Saturation`, `Hue`, `Input`, `Label`, etc.) that can be rearranged or customized.

---

## Basic Usage

```vue
<script setup>
import { ColorPicker } from '@/components/ui/color-picker';
const color = ref('#6366f1');
</script>

<template>
  <ColorPicker v-model="color" />
</template>
```

---

## Props Reference

Available on both `ColorPickerRoot` and the high-level `ColorPicker`.

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `modelValue` | `string \| ColorValue` | `'#000000'` | The current color value. Supports HEX, RGB, HSV, and OKLCH strings. |
| `format` | `'hex' \| 'rgb' \| 'hsv' \| 'oklch'` | `'hex'` | Determines the string format for `v-model` and the text input. |
| `open` | `boolean` | `false` | Controls the open state of the popover. |
| `shape` | `'square' \| 'circle'` | `'circle'` | The shape of the `ColorPickerPreview` (the trigger button). |
| `disabled` | `boolean` | `false` | Disables all interactions with the picker. |
| `disableAlpha` | `boolean` | `false` | Hides/disables alpha channel controls (where applicable). |

### Popover Configuration

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `side` | `'top' \| 'right' \| 'bottom' \| 'left'` | `'bottom'` | Preferred side to open the picker. |
| `align` | `'start' \| 'center' \| 'end'` | `'center'` | Alignment relative to the trigger. |
| `sideOffset` | `number` | `4` | Distance in pixels from the trigger. |

---

## Events

| Event | Payload | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `update:modelValue` | `string \| ColorValue` | Emitted when the color changes. |
| `update:open` | `boolean` | Emitted when the popover opens or closes. |
| `change` | `ColorValue` | Emitted onทุก interaction with the high-level object representation of the color. |

---

## Sub-components (Primitives)

Use these to build your own custom layout:

- **`ColorPickerPreview`**: The trigger button showing the selected color.
- **`ColorPickerBody`**: The popover container.
- **`ColorPickerSaturation`**: The large 2D area for saturation and value adjustment.
- **`ColorPickerHue`**: The rainbow slider for hue adjustment.
- **`ColorPickerArea`**: A low-level utility to handle mouse/touch interactions inside sliders or areas.
- **`ColorPickerIndicator`**: The "ring" visual showing the current selection.
- **`ColorPickerInput`**: A smart text input that reacts to the `format` prop.
- **`ColorPickerLabel`**: Stylized typography for labels.
- **`ColorPickerSwatch`**: A simple box showing the currently selected color.
- **`ColorPickerSection`**: A container for grouping elements with standard spacing.
- **`ColorPickerRow`**: A container for horizontal alignment.

---

## Color Utilities

The component includes a robust utility library in `color.utils.ts`:

- **`parseColor(input)`**: Converts any supported string or object into a unified `ColorValue` object.
- **`formatColor(color, format)`**: Converts a `ColorValue` object into a CSS-ready string (e.g., `rgba(...)`, `oklch(...)`).

### Supported Formats

- **Hex**: `#RRGGBB` or `#RGB`
- **RGB**: `rgb(r, g, b)` / `rgba(r, g, b, a)`
- **HSV**: `hsv(h, s%, v%)` / `hsva(h, s%, v%, a)`
- **OKLCH**: `oklch(l c h)` / `oklch(l c h / a)`
- **Names**: `red`, `blue`, etc. (resolved in-browser)

Commit message:

feat: implement color-picker-alpha component
Add hex alpha support
Remove color picker shape prop.

app/components/ui/color-picker/docs.md, after:

# Color Picker Component

A highly modular, Shadcn-style color picker built with Vue 3. It supports multiple color formats, precise control over the saturation/hue area, and a fully configurable popover.

## Architecture

The component follows a primitive-first architecture:

- **`ColorPickerRoot`**: The logical engine. Provides state and methods via context and scoped slots.
- **`ColorPicker`**: A pre-composed, high-level component that uses all primitives for an out-of-the-box experience.
- **Sub-components**: Modular pieces (`Saturation`, `Hue`, `Input`, `Label`, etc.) that can be rearranged or customized.

---

## Basic Usage

```vue
<script setup>
import { ColorPicker } from '@/components/ui/color-picker';
const color = ref('#6366f1');
</script>

<template>
  <ColorPicker v-model="color" />
</template>
```

---

## Props Reference

Available on both `ColorPickerRoot` and the high-level `ColorPicker`.

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `modelValue` | `string \| ColorValue` | `'#000000'` | The current color value. Supports HEX, RGB, HSV, and OKLCH strings. |
| `format` | `'hex' \| 'rgb' \| 'hsv' \| 'oklch'` | `'hex'` | Determines the string format for `v-model` and the text input. |
| `open` | `boolean` | `false` | Controls the open state of the popover. |
| `disabled` | `boolean` | `false` | Disables all interactions with the picker. |
| `disableAlpha` | `boolean` | `false` | Hides/disables alpha channel controls (where applicable). |

### Popover Configuration

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `side` | `'top' \| 'right' \| 'bottom' \| 'left'` | `'bottom'` | Preferred side to open the picker. |
| `align` | `'start' \| 'center' \| 'end'` | `'center'` | Alignment relative to the trigger. |
| `sideOffset` | `number` | `4` | Distance in pixels from the trigger. |

---

## Events

| Event | Payload | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `update:modelValue` | `string \| ColorValue` | Emitted when the color changes. |
| `update:open` | `boolean` | Emitted when the popover opens or closes. |
| `change` | `ColorValue` | Emitted onทุก interaction with the high-level object representation of the color. |

---

## Sub-components (Primitives)

Use these to build your own custom layout:

- **`ColorPickerPreview`**: The trigger button showing the selected color.
- **`ColorPickerBody`**: The popover container.
- **`ColorPickerSaturation`**: The large 2D area for saturation and value adjustment.
- **`ColorPickerHue`**: The rainbow slider for hue adjustment.
- **`ColorPickerAlpha`**: A slider for transparency (alpha) adjustment with a checkered background.
- **`ColorPickerArea`**: A low-level utility to handle mouse/touch interactions inside sliders or areas.
- **`ColorPickerIndicator`**: The "ring" visual showing the current selection.
- **`ColorPickerInput`**: A smart text input that reacts to the `format` prop.
- **`ColorPickerLabel`**: Stylized typography for labels.
- **`ColorPickerSwatch`**: A simple box showing the currently selected color.
- **`ColorPickerSection`**: A container for grouping elements with standard spacing.
- **`ColorPickerRow`**: A container for horizontal alignment.

---

## Color Utilities

The component includes a robust utility library in `color.utils.ts`:

- **`parseColor(input)`**: Converts any supported string or object into a unified `ColorValue` object.
- **`formatColor(color, format)`**: Converts a `ColorValue` object into a CSS-ready string (e.g., `rgba(...)`, `oklch(...)`).

### Supported Formats

- **Hex**: `#RRGGBB` or `#RGB`
- **RGB**: `rgb(r, g, b)` / `rgba(r, g, b, a)`
- **HSV**: `hsv(h, s%, v%)` / `hsva(h, s%, v%, a)`
- **OKLCH**: `oklch(l c h)` / `oklch(l c h / a)`
- **Names**: `red`, `blue`, etc. (resolved in-browser)
